as Helen Keller said optimism is the
faith that leads to achievement nothing
can be done without hope and confidence
and that's the trick
it really is faith it really is doing
something even though you have nothing
in the world telling you that it's real
it's something that you have to choose
to believe in it's something that is
going to allow you to do incredible
things simply because you believe that
you can do them but if you don't start
with that optimistic belief if you don't
start by burning into yourself by
reinforcing over and over and over in
your mind that things can and will work
out that your efforts are going to be
rewarded to believe to the core of your
being that the harder you work the more
you're gonna learn the more you learn
the more you'll be able to do the more
you'll be able to do the more you'll be
able to manifest your dreams but you
have to start with that faith that
that's real because it would be just as
easy to look at the world and say the
pessimism is the only thing that makes
sense
you'll be just as easy to look into the
world and see only the negative things
but once you understand that you can
choose to have faith that things are
going to work that you can believe in
something long before you have the
evidence for it and you can believe in
it because you know that's how the mind
works that we lead with beliefs that's
where humans generate their power they
don't generate it from seeing some
evidence of something in the world we
generate our power by first believing
that our efforts will be rewarded you
have to put that at the center of your
being and as Wayne Dyer said be
miserable or motivate yourself whatever
has to be done is always your choice so
if you want to do something recognize
there's no obstacle holding you back
other than what you choose to believe
and if you want to be miserable it's
gonna be there for you and if you want
to be empowered it's there for you if
you want strength it is there for you
it's a decision it's something that you
decide to believe in that you can get
strong and that ultimately is the
ultimate strength to believe that you
can get better to believe that you can
become whatever you want to become so
choose optimism right now choose to let
it fill you choose to feel it to sit in
that sensation that anything you set
your mind to is possible when you allow
yourself to embody that to believe it no
matter what anybody tells you no matter
how many people tell you that you're
stupid you're a failure that you're
never going to do anything that you are
gonna believe in yourself if you can do
that if you can choose that optimism you
can go anywhere because you realize
everything you needed was in you all
along it was simply choosing to believe
you could execute against it so have
that faith go out and do it as Gandhi
said strength does not come from
physical capacity it comes from an
indomitable will we're talking about a
man that took on an empire and he did it
not by his physical prowess but instead
by not being willing to be bowed or
broken and at the end of the day that is
something each one of us controls that
is something that each one of us can
build into ourselves we decide whether
or not we can be broken we decide how
far we're willing to go and at the end
of the day how far you're willing to go
how indomitable your will really is
comes down to one simple thing do you
believe in what you're fighting for are
the hard times something that you're
willing to push through to persevere to
get to the other side because you
believe to the core of your being and
what you're fighting for and that is
something we all have to define for
ourselves that is something we all have
to build
into the very core of our being but most
people just stumble through life they
daydream through life they don't have a
plan they don't have something specific
that they're aiming at and because of
that when they hit an obstacle because
of that when they hit something that
pushes back against them when they hit
an equally obstinate force they break
they bow they crumble because they don't
have that thing that they're willing to
fight for they don't have that burning
ember inside of them that is dictating
everything that they do and because of
that they're never going to be able to
get on the other side of that obstacle
because of that life is going to stop
them because of that every time that
they try to create momentum in their
life something stops them but it's not
the thing on the outside that stops them
it's the lack of something on the inside
and as Winston Churchill said if you're
going through hell keep going but the
only way
to be able to persevere it's about the
only reason that you're going to have
that thing inside of you that demands
that you keep going is it you believe in
that thing if you build something up in
your life that you'd be willing to die
for and you live for it when you
construct that at the center of your
soul then you're gonna have the tenacity
to push through then you will see that
you were not defined by your physical
prowess at that moment you will
understand what Gandhi was trying to say
that each and every one of us will be
made by what we come to stand for each
and every one of us will be constructed
of our will the things that we're able
to do will be defined by that so when
you take the time to build something
build the strength of conviction that is
what will see you through hell
Ralph Waldo Emerson said shallow people
believe in luck and in circumstance
strong people believe in cause and
effect that's as simple as change that
you could make in your life to choose to
believe that everything is a result of
choices that you make and it is a choice
you can choose to believe in luck you
can choose to believe that you don't
have control that you don't have agency
that the world is happening to you or
you can choose to recognize the cause
and effect exists that if you want to
get better at something you need to put
in the work that if you want to get
stronger you need to lift heavier
weights that you can either ask for
stronger shoulders to carry a bigger
load or you can ask for a lighter load
the choice is yours but at the end of
the day if you want those strong
shoulders they're yours to build you've
got to make those choices you've got to
understand the cause and effect you've
got to understand that your life right
now is the exact reflection of your
choices your life the good the bad the
ugly the hateful the painful the joyful
the beautiful everything in your life is
a reflection of you it's a reflection of
the things you've decided to do it's a
reflection of the things you've decided
not to do it's the story you tell
yourself about yourself what you believe
is capable all of those things they're
the choices that you're making every day
and at anytime you can choose to make a
different choice and as Bruce Lee said
if you always put limits on everything
you do physical or anything else it will
spread into your work and into your life
there are no limits there are only
plateaus and you must not stay there you
must go beyond them even in the
statement you can see him making the
choice about what to believe by saying
that there are no limits by taking
something that other people perceive as
a limit is something that's stopping him
and saying that's not it's a plateau
it's something that I can push through
and you see
he holds himself accountable - it's not
okay to stay at a plateau it's okay to
have one everybody has them they happen
it's a natural part of the course of
getting better but it is not okay to
stay there and that is a choice that's
not something anyone can hand you it's
something you have to believe to the
core of your soul that it is not okay to
stay in a plateau and it's that that's
gonna push you through it's that that's
gonna make you get up and keep going
but first you have to recognize that
life is cause-and-effect you have to
recognize that that choice is a knock-on
effect you have to recognize that him
merely saying those words out loud have
a cause and effect
they changed the course of his life the
expectations that other people have of
him expectations that he has of himself
and because he understands that he can
control the outside world by first
controlling what's inside by changing
his belief system to match what he wants
to accomplish he's then able to
accomplish what he did in his life have
nothing to do with luck it had
everything to do with the demands that
he made on himself it had to do with win
he got in a motorcycle accident people
told him he would never walk again not
only did he walk again all of the major
accomplishments that we think about it
being that man they all came after they
came after he was told he was never
gonna walk and came after he was told
that he was never going to be able to do
martial arts but he did it
he did the grueling work of getting
better he understood cause and effect he
understood that if you chose to believe
that he could never do it that he'd
never be able to do it but that if he
chose to believe that by working out he
could get stronger and get better and
get back to it
and that's what he did so now ask
yourself is your life dictated by luck
or cause and effect are you in control
or is it somebody else is someone else
in control or is it you and if it's you
go build the life that you want because
there's nothing stopping you but you
everyone takes the limits of their own
vision for the limits of the world
Arthur Schopenhauer there is all around
you right now the reflections of your
world belief they're so ever-present
that you don't even see them all the
assumption that you've made about the
world the things that are possible what
you're capable of who you are the very
definition of what it means to be alive
all of it is completely invisible and
you're mistaken
what you have for what could be and once
you break free of that once you
understand that right now you're a
moment in time and that you have latent
potential and that latent potential can
be expressed in the form of skills that
you can get good at things that you can
develop yourself in any direction that
brain plasticity alone is one of the
greatest weapons that you're not using
but you have to move beyond what you can
perceive today you have to begin to look
beyond that and see that which doesn't
yet exist and you have to remember that
many of the things that are holding you
down are rules that you don't even
realize or rules and as General Douglas
MacArthur said you're remembered for the
rules you break and right now you're
following rules that you don't even
realize exists and some of those rules
are simply what is okay to dream but I'm
here to tell you the power
is in recognizing that you can do it the
power is in having the arrogance of
belief the power is an understanding
that you yes you are going to be capable
of something simply because you are
willing to believe in yourself and
that's the thing it's a willingness to
believe in yourself no one's gonna give
it to you even the people that love you
they're not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handing is limitation with the
best of intentions with all the
love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself so
caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it I
understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I will never be told what
to do again I will never be held back by
somebody else I will define myself I
will figure out what I need to do and I
will do it and at the end of the day
that is it my goals drive my behavior I
am NOT held back by what other people
think about me no matter how
intoxicating it is to be loved you have
to decide what you want more do you want
to be you or do you want to be someone
else's reflection of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let what you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey said
you're not the product of your
circumstances
rather a product of your decisions and
it's those decisions that are going to
allow you to build that skill sets don't
worry about where you started don't
worry about what you already have
remember it's the decisions that you
make it's going down that road it is the
decision to get started
it's the decision to face possible
failure it's the decision to get up once
you've failed and it's the decision of
what to learn when you fail do you learn
that you're not
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started the huge getting started it
started with you showing up it started
with you pushing and trying worried
about what you have and what you are
focus on who you want to become and the
price you're willing to pay together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
but one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your in one day that thing that you
learned is going to be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas inequal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day
defending those seeds to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do that there will
be nothing that won't
that's what I want you guys to
understand it does
matter where you started your
circumstances the money the people that
you know none of it matters what matters
is how much he's willing to learn how
good are you willing to get how much
knowledge are you willing to soak in
because that will become your weapon
that will be how you rise up and that
would be the thing that will protect you
when you need it most
[Music]
you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today